 am writing to you to illustrate potential areas of improvement regarding the portable air conditioning unit. There are four main improvements that I have identified.
 • In order to reduce waste/e-waste. The unit should be modular, repairable, and open. The
 design team should follow principals from both Free and open-source software(FOSS) and
 ”the Right to Repair”. This means that design decisions should be consistent with both of
 these philosophies. In some product designs the entire appliance is throw out because manufacturers make it impossible to fix(by means of software or hardware restrictions). Modularity would make it possible for consumers to replace parts that break over time, reducing
 waste. When it comes to repairability, the unit enclosure should also follow these principals. Consumers should be able to open the unit easily and replace and or fix components
 on there own, or by a trained professional. The unit should be designed to be easily opened
 and worked on without fear of breaking it. In some appliances like printers, the software itself can break the machine even if the components are brand new and usable. The software
 written should be simple and only restrictive enough to ensure the safety of the consumer,
 otherwise it should be as open source and forgiving as legally possible.
 • In addition to a HEPA filter, the appliance should also have a reusable pre-filter to reduce
 the amount of stress on the disposable and expensive HEPA filter. Doing so would one,
 reduce waste(by reducing the number of HEPA filters used) and two be more economical
 for the consumer(money wise). The appliance should use a aluminum or an electrostatic
     pre-filter.
     • In this study a cross-flow heat exchanger with a counter flow configuration [1] was used.
     Through computer modeling and real life sampling this configuration was proved to be
     more optimal than other designs. Therefore the design team should consider replacing the
     current technology with a more efficient heat exchanger, and flow configuration.
     • The main way that an air conditioner works is that recycled air is mixed with outside air,
     this air is then cooled, and finally blown indoors, this process then repeats. Ideally it is better to minimize the ratio of outside air to recycled air, especially in very hot conditions.
     There are some cases where you would want to use more outside air like in a kitchen or
     cafeteria to reduce the odor of food and to keep air fresh. Outside air is also needed to reduce air toxins that would accumulate if 100% of the air was recycled. In terms of sustainability this is important because the more outside air is used the more taxing it is on the
     cooling coil, taxing the cooling coil requires more energy. The ratio of recycled to outside
     air should have reasonable defaults with this fact in mind. The user should also be able to
     choose the ratio depending on the location of the application.
