Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 1 of 39

Mooring Design & Dynamics
A Matlab® Package for Designing and Analyzing
Oceanographic Moorings and Towed Bodies
Reference: Marine Models Online, Vol(1), pp 103-157.

Richard K. Dewey
Centre for Earth and Ocean Research
University of Victoria, BC, Canada
RDewey@UVic.CA

Users Guide
Table of Contents

Mooring Design and Dynamics is a set
of Matlab® routines that can be used to
assist in the design and configuration of
single point oceanographic moorings,
the evaluation of mooring tension and
shape under the influence of wind and
time varying currents, and the
simulation of towed bodies. The static
model will predict the tension and tilt at
each mooring component, including the
anchor, for which the safe mass will be
evaluated in terms of the vertical and
horizontal tensions. Predictions can be
saved to facilitate mooring motion
correction. Time dependent currents can
be entered to predict the dynamic
response of the mooring. Version 2.1
includes the capability to predict the depth of towed bodies from a moving ship with sheared currents,
including the use of depressors and tow-floats. The package includes a preliminary database of standard
mooring components which can be selected from pull down menus. The database can be edited and
expanded (personalized) to include user specific components, frequently used fasteners/wires etc., or
unique oceanographic instruments. Once designed and tested, a draft of the mooring components can be
plotted and a list of components, including fasteners can be printed.

Installation
Version 2.1 (April 2002) of Mooring Design and Dynamics accompanies this document, or you may wish to download the
latest version of Mooring Design and Dynamics either as a UNIX compressed tar-file mdd.tar.z, or as PC zip archive
mdd.zip, or visit the Mooring Design and Dynamics web page for any recent updates and URLs to the latest files. Both
archives are approximately 2Mb in size. Once you have the appropriate archive, extract the files into a local toolbox
directory, possibly named /matlab/toolbox/local/mdd and add this to your Matlab® path. The programs are accessed by
typing »moordesign at the Matlab® command prompt. To make this Users Guide accessible from within Matlab®, the
contents must be extracted under the Matlab® "help" directory, in /matlab/help/toolbox/mdd. This Users Guide and model

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 2 of 39

description can then be accessed from within Matlab® by typing »mdd at the Matlab® command prompt. It is not necessary
to install the Users Guide to use Mooring Design and Dynamics. If your Matlab® path contains blanks, such as "C:\Program
Files\Matlab", then some of the load functions will not work properly. This is because the load command can not have blanks
in it. Unfortunately, the easiest workaround is to install Matlab® in a path without blanks (ugh!), i.e. "C:\Matlab".

1 Getting Started
Mooring Design and Dynamics is a Matlab® application, and requires a pre-installed version of Matlab® to run. The first
thing one needs to do, before using MD&D to assist in the design and evaluation of an oceanographic mooring, is get
organized. One needs a clear definition of the mooring components, it's desired dimensions, and the environment it will go
into. It is suggested the user sketch out the mooring, make a note of all the major components available, what height above
the bottom they are to be deployed at, what type of fasteners will be used, and what type/size of mooring wire will be used or
is available. All of this information is required before you can complete a mooring design and evaluate it. Then let MD&D
do the actual formal designing, evaluation, and plotting/listing of the mooring. Alternately, to learn the basics and
functionality of MD&D, one can start the program and get familiar with it's capabilities and what features it has available
from it's pull down menus using the example moorings and auxiliary files provided with the program files. Also, despite the
authors efforts, it is possible to enter data and design moorings that are incompatible with the present code, and the program
(s) and routines can be made to "crash" if data is entered incorrectly. It is assumed the user will try to design meaningful
moorings and follow the suggestions provided here. And as with any development procedure, it is suggested that you "save
early, save often". If you encounter errors or program difficulties, please "clear all" and reload the mooring. If problems
persist, make sure you have the latest version.
The main menu (MD&D program) is started by typing
>>moordesign;

at the Matlab® command line prompt. The Main Menu (showing all base options) with active links to each feature is shown
below.

A Word About Moorings
The moorings that can be designed and tested using MD&D are (at the moment)
limited to single point (single anchor) configurations. It is assumed that the user has
thought about the type of mooring and the hardware available to build it. A rough
sketch and/or list of the components and their anticipated positions along the mooring
should be drafted before you begin with MD&D . The list of components used by
MD&D is intentionally exact (i.e. each shackle should be included). Once designed
and tested, the actual list of mooring components, broken down by each different
type can be printed, and actually used as a shopping/packing list. Moorings are
designed from the top down, starting with a float (positive buoyancy device) and
ending with an anchor (negative buoyancy device). Non-sense moorings can be
designed, but will have meaningless solutions or may cause MD&D to crash. It may
be necessary to save a mooring/towed body configuration early, and after a "crash"
execute the "Clear All" option from the main menu to clear memory. Then re-load
the file in order to continue. Finally, before deploying a mooring, please read the
Disclaimer.
I have added the capability of estimating the tension and fall speed during a free fall
descent. This is accomplished by adjusting the uniform (at all depths) vertical
velocity (relative to the mooring), until the weight under he anchor (displayed when a solution is found) is zero (=0). The W
associated with this state will be the approximate fall speed for a free-fall mooring. The tensions in the wire (which may be
large) during a free-fall descent will then be displayed/available. Warning: The top of anchor-last free-fall moorings can
penetrate to depths deeper than the static depth, due to inertia and wire angles during release. Also, for an anchor-last

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 3 of 39

deployment, the mooring will not be vertical for the first part of the descent, and the fall speed solution will be less accurate.

A Word About Towed Bodies
The towed bodies that can be designed
and tested with MD&D are of three basic
configurations. First is a simple heavy
object (net negative buoyancy) and a
segment of wire. However, to facilitate
the
solution,
a
"top-of-towrope" (floatation) device MUST be
placed at the top of the towed body
configuration (see the example in
tow001.mat). This is used by the program
to "identify" the water surface. This
device has no mass or size, and does not
affect the solution, it only assists the
program in determining where the inwater wire and out-of-water wire point is located. The second type of towed body configuration allowed by MD&D would
include a heavy (negative buoyancy) device(s) (depressor) some where along the tow wire. This is often used to force the
towed body to greater depths. The third configuration has a single floatation (positive buoyancy) device (riser) along the tow
wire, which may or may not break the surface. This is often used to "de-couple" the ship motion from the towed body. In
addition to setting the ship velocity (U=east and V=north), the user can set the water column velocity profiles [U(z), V(z), W
(z)], as might be recorded by an on-board ADCP. Both of these velocities should be in absolute Earth coordinates (relative to
the Earth). Highly sheared flows will cause the towed body to get pulled far to the side, or even ahead of a slowing moving
tow ship. The user should specify the approximate height (i.e. 5 m) of the towing block (or A-frame) above the water. This
will allow MD&D to estimate the amount of wire out of the water (from the water surface to the A-frame), which for light
towed bodies or high speed tows, can be significant. The total wire length (from tow body to A-frame) will then be displayed.
The size of the towing ship plotted by MD&D is proportional to the height of the A-frame.

Users Guide: Table of Contents
1. Getting Started
2. A Word About Moorings
3. A Word About Towed Bodies
MD&D
1. The Main Menu
1. Design New Mooring Initialize a mooring design and all variables.
2. Design New Towed Body Initialize a towed body design and all variables.
3. Load Existing Mooring/Towed Body Load a previously designed and saved mooring/towed body.
4. Save a Mooring/Towed Body Save the present mooring/towed body.
5. Add/Modify In-Line Mooring Elements Add/Edit the present mooring configuration.
6. Add/Modify Clamp-on Devices Add/Edit the present mooring/towed body clamp-on devices.
7. Add/Modify A Towed Body Add/Edit the present towed body configuration.
8. Set/Load Environmental Conditions Set Currents, Wind, Ship velocity.
9. Display Currents Display the velocity and density values.
10. Evaluate and Plot 3-D Mooring/Towed Body Once designed, evaluated the mooring under the
specified environmental conditions.
11. Display Mooring/Towed Body Elements|Print Display (or prints) positions (and, if evaluated, tensions)
of each mooring component and a component summary.
12. Plot Mooring|Print Plots (or prints) mooring components.
13. Set Desired Depth [m] Enter the desired depth for a towed body, predict the wire length.
14. Add/Examine Elements in Database Edit the mooring component database.
15. Make/Load/Show a Movie Make a Matlab® movie of the mooring forced by time varying currents.

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

4.
5.
6.
7.

Page 4 of 39

16. Clear All Clears all MD&D variables and figures (state wide re-initialize).
17. Whos Displays list of variables, including global matrices.
18. Close Close all figures and exit MD&D.
The Mathematical Solution
Examples
Disclaimer
References

The Main Menu
The Main Menu provides
access to all the major
functions available in MD&D
for both moorings (top panel)
and towed bodies (low panel).
Initially, however, when no
mooring or the necessary
environmental conditions are
loaded into memory, only a
sub-set of options will be
displayed by the Main Menu.
These include the ability to
design a new mooring/towed
body, load a mooring/towed
body file, and edit/examine the
database. As a mooring or
towed body is designed and
analyzed, the number of
displayed options in the Main
Menu increases. Shown in the
top Main Menu figure is a
relatively
complete
Main
Menu, showing most functions,
after a mooring has been
loaded. The lower Main Menu
figure shows the Main Menu
after
a
Towed
Body
configuration
has
been
loaded/designed. These menus
are nearly identical, except for
the options of plotting the
mooring and making a times
series of mooring solutions or
movie (available only for
moorings), and the option for
specifying the desired depth of
the towed body (available on
only
for
towed
body
configurations). The size of the
Main Menu on your computer
screen can be re-sized by
dragging one of the corners.
MD&D will then remember
this new size the next time it is
started.
l

Design New Mooring

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 5 of 39

Initialize mooring design.
l Design New Towed Body Initialize towed body design.
l Load Existing Mooring/Towed Body Load a previously designed and saved mooring/towed body.
l Save a Mooring/Towed Body Save the present configuration into a mat file.
l Add/Modify In-line Elements Add/Edit the in-line mooring/towed body components.
l Add/Modify Clamp-on Devices Add/Edit any clamp-on mooring/towed body components.
l Add/Modify A Towed Body Add/Edit the present towed body configuration.
l Set/Load Environmental Conditions Set Currents.
l Display Currents/Ship Speed Display velocity and density values for moorings, and in addition for towed bodies, display
the ship velocity components (East/North). for towed bodies.
l Evaluate and Plot 3-D Mooring/Towed Body Once designed, a mooring/towed body can be evaluated under varying
environmental conditions.
l Display Mooring Elements|Print Display positions (and tensions) of each mooring component and a component summary.
l

l

l
l
l
l
l

Plot Mooring|Print Plots mooring components (for moorings only).
OR
Enter Desired Depth [m] Enter the desired depth for a towed body (only).

Add/Examine Elements in Database Edit the mooring component database.
Make/Load/Show a Movie For time varying currents.
Clear All Clears all MD&D variables/figures.
Whos Displays list of all variables (including global).
Close Exit from MD&D and return to MATLAB command window.

If any of the menu text strings do not fit the menu buttons, or are not legible, then one can change the size of the Menu fonts
used by MD&D by editing the first executable line of moordesign.m, fs=12; immediately following the global declarations.
An attempt to auto-scale the menu font size based on screen resolution is made.
Return to TOC of Users Guide

Main Menu: Design New Mooring
This function clears the component list, and presents the user with the "Modify Mooring Design" window. This is the primary
menu/function from which mooring elements can be added (from the database) or deleted to/from a mooring. By default,
mooring elements (components) are added from the top (element one) to the bottom of the mooring. The top element is
usually a floatation device, the bottom element usually an anchor. All moorings need to have at least some positive buoyancy
elements (floatation) and negative buoyancy elements. Non-sense moorings will likely cause the program to crash. Just as in
a real mooring, components MUST be separated by appropriate fasteners (e.g. shackles), even if the adjacent mooring
components are both wire or rope elements. The intent is to have the solution and list of mooring components be as complete
and accurate as possible, leaving nothing out which is required for actually building the mooring. Other mooring programs
allow you to not specify an anchor, or have adjacent components without fasteners. MD&D requires you to be accurate and
complete. This forces one to think about the safe operating loads on each component, as a mooring is only as strong as it's
weakest link. A good mooring should have consistent components (i.e. fasteners) which reflect the anticipated loads and
tensions, without wasting over-size components. Sometimes, due to the dimensions of certain devices, shackles of specific
size are necessary (i.e. the drop shackle for an Interocean Acoustic Release is a 1 inch anchor shackle). Fitting these specific
components with the rest of the mooring may require a series of shackles, and it is recommended that all of these components
be included in the mooring design and analysis. MD&D was designed to do exactly this, producing the most accurate
analysis and complete list of components.

Element to Add/Insert This numeric string is editable
(click on the number with the mouse), and must either be the next
"free" element (number of present elements plus 1, default) to add,
or an existing element number to insert a new element and bump
the remaining elements below this.
l Delete Element Editable string, where an existing mooring
element number is entered in order to delete this element. You
should "click" Display Elements both before and after deleting
l

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 6 of 39

an element to confirm the updated list of mooring elements and
their element number.
l Component Type: Floatation (and other mooring component types) This is a pull down menu. Click on the
button to reveal the available list of database component types. They include: Floatation, Wire, Chain and Shackles,
Current Meter, Acoustic Release, Anchor, and Component: Misc Instrument. Select a component type by
clicking on the name of the type. Fasteners (shackles and rings) are listed under Chain and Shackles.
l 61in ORE (and other available mooring components) A pull-down menu to select the desired mooring component from
a list of the available database components for this mooring component type. Click on the
button to reveal the available
list of components, then click on the desired component. The mooring element list will automatically be updated and
displayed in the Matlab® Command Window.
l Display Elements This button will re-generate an updated list of the present mooring elements and their respective
number in the main Matlab® Command Window.
l Close Closes this menu, keeping the present mooring components in memory, and returning to the Main Menu. It would
be advisable to save a complicated mooring after each major modification.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu:
Design New
Towed Body
This function clears
the component list
(all memory), and
presents the user
with the "Modify
Towed
Body
Configuration"
window. This is the
primary
menu/function from
which towed body elements can be added (from the database) or deleted to/from a configuration. By default, towed body
elements (components) are added from the bottom (element one) to the top of the tow rope. The top element must be the
"top-of-tow rope" floatation device, the bottom element the towed body. All towed bodies need to have at least some negative
buoyancy elements and may contain a single floatation device. Non-sense tow body configurations will likely cause the
program to crash. Just as in a real towed body, components MUST be separated by appropriate fasteners (e.g. shackles), even
if the adjacent components are both wire or rope elements. The intent is to have the solution and list of components be as
complete and accurate as possible, leaving nothing out which is required for actually building/simulating the towed body.
Three
different
towed
body
configurations
can
be
evaluated
with
MD&D. These include a simple heavy towed body
suspended by a single wire element (see figure above).
The configuration may be sufficient for most towed
body evaluations. An example is stored in the file
TOW001.MAT included with MD&D. The second type of towed body will include a depressor or weight (negative
buoyancy device) at some location along the tow wire (or more correctly between wire segments). Such a configuration is
shown here on the right and on the Marlin page at OSU. The third configuration includes a floatation device at some distance

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 7 of 39

along the tow wire. Depending on the weight of the tow body, it's drag, the currents and ship speed, the float may or may not
break the surface. Such a spacer is often used to buffer the towed body from ship motion. Once a towed body has been
designed, the following menu is identical to the Modify Towed Body menu.

l

Element to Add/Insert Bottom-to-Top

This numeric string is editable (click on the number
with the mouse), and must either be the next "free"
element (number of present elements plus 1,
[default]) to add, or an existing element number to
insert a new element and bump the remaining
elements below this. The action is not taken until
the "Execute" button is pressed.
l Delete Element Editable string, where an
existing towed body element number is entered in
order to delete this element. You should "click"
Display Elements both before and after deleting
an element to confirm the updated list of mooring
elements and their element number. The delete
action is not taken until the "Execute" button is
pressed.
l Component Type: Misc Instrument (and
other towed body component types) This is a pull
down menu. Click on the
button to reveal the
available list of database component types. Select a
component type by clicking on the name of the type.
Fasteners (shackles and rings) are listed under
Chain and Shackles.
l Component: Heavy Sphere (and other
available components) A pull-down menu to select the desired towed body component from a list of the available database
components for this component type. Click on the
button to reveal the available list of components, then click on the
desired component. The list of component will not be updated until the "Execute" button is pressed. The "Heavy Sphere" in
the default database, represents a test device for towed bodies. It is a sphere with net negative buoyancy (sinks), and can be
used as a template for other simple towed bodies.
l Enter Ship Velocity [U V] (m/s) This is where the user specifies and changes the ship velocity for the towed body.
The ship velocity is assumed to be in Earth coordinates, with U = East velocity and V = North velocity, both given in metres
per second (m/s). Note that 1 knot is 0.514 m/s. Use MATLAB (or other calculator) to convert a speed and compass direction
to components using "speed*exp(i*(90-heading)*pi/180)", where heading is clockwise from true north and U is the real part
and V is the imaginary part of the answer. NOTE: If the water column velocity profile is given in absolute velocities relative
to the Earth (i.e. navigated ADCP data), then the ship velocity is the velocity OVER LAND (i.e. as reported by a GPS
navigation system. If the water column velocity is not know, or set to zero (default), then the important ship velocity is that
relative to the surface water. If both are absolute (i.e. relative to land), then they will give the same result. For example, a ship
moving in the X (East) direction at one knot, is equivalent to a stationary ship in a U=-0.514 m/s current.
l Height of A-Frame Block Above Water (m) This number sets the scale of the ship, and also determines the length
of wire out of the water, from the surface to the A-frame block. For light tow bodies, or fast towing, there can be a significant
amount of wire out of the water, be tween the surface and the block. MD&D will estimate this length of wire, so that the
reported wire length is from the block to the towed body. No wind drag is calculated in the "out-of-water" wire, so a hanging
catenary shape is assumed. As with the real world, the angle of the towed body from the ship pivots at the block. If the height
of the A- frame is set to zero, no ship is plotted (ship size scales with A-frame height).
l Execute Add-Insert-Delete Operation Once the component has been selected for addition, insertion, or deleting,
this button executes the procedure.
l Display Elements This button will generate a list of the present towed body elements and their respective number in
the Matlab® Command Window.
l Close Closes this menu, keeping the present towed body components in memory, and returning control to the Main
Menu. It would be advisable to save a complicated towed body after each major modification.

Return to The Main Menu

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 8 of 39

Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Load Existing Mooring
Opens an operating system window,
similar to the one shown here, from which
the user can select a disk, directory, and
MAT file containing a previously saved
mooring or data. This same window is
used to load a previously saved movie of
a time dependent mooring simulation or
environmental data. Some default and test
moorings and movies are included with
this package (including least the list
shown here), with some time dependent
current profiles moorings (*ts.mat). Click
on (highlight) the desired file and then
click
, or double click on the
filename (depending on the operating
system).

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Save a Mooring
Opens an operating system window,
similar to the one shown here, from which
the user can select a disk, directory, and
MAT filename into which all necessary
mooring information or environmental
data is saved. This mat file can then be
loaded later to further evaluate, view,
modify, or analyze the mooring. Click on
an existing filename to overwrite, or enter
the filename. This list shows some of my
mooring designs from a project in Juan de
Fuca in 1997, including three thermistor
chain and two ADCP moorings. Time
series of current profiles recorded by the
ADCPs where then used to "simulate"
mooring motion. The thermistor depths
where then corrected. These "weakly"
taut moorings had 15 m excursions during
peak (1.2 m/s) currents, which where simulated to within 1% of the recorded top and bottom pressure records.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Add/Modify In-Line Mooring Elements
As with Designing a New Mooring, this is the primary working menu used to modify (add and delete) in-line mooring
elements from a mooring. More mooring components will be "in-line". These components are distinguished from "clamp-on"

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 9 of 39

devices, which would commonly be attached to a wire/rope segment.

Element to Add/Insert. This numeric string is
editable (click on the number with the mouse), and must
either be the next "free" element (number of present
elements plus 1, default) to add, or an existing element
number to insert a new element and bump the remaining
elements below this.
l Delete Element Editable string, where an existing
mooring element number is entered in order to delete this
element. You should "click" Display Elements both
before and after deleting an element to confirm the new
list of mooring elements and their element number.
l Load Different Database This option allows a
user to maintain a variety of databases, and load a new or
user specific database of mooring components as
necessary. When loaded, the component type and
components displayed in the following menu items may
change.
l Current Meter (and other mooring component
types) This is a pull down menu. Click on the
button
to reveal the available list of database component types.
They include: Floatation, Wire, Chain and
l

Shackles, Current Meter, Acoustic Release,
Anchor, and Misc Instrument. Select a component type by clicking on the name of the type. Fasteners (i.e. shackles,

rings, swivels, etc.) are listed under Chain and Shackles.
l Aanderaa RCM-7 (and other mooring components) A pull-down menu to select the desired mooring component from a
list of the available database components for this mooring component type. Click on the
button to reveal the available list
of components, then click on the component. The mooring element list will automatically be updated once this component
has been selected.
l Execute Update Push this button to execute the desired update to the in-line mooring components once the index, type
and device have been selected. This was added as a confirmation and a safe guard to minimize errors in changing moorings.
l Display Elements This button will generate a list of the present mooring elements and their respective number in the
main Matlab® Command Window.
l Global Replace This option allows a user to globally replace/substitute one type of mooring component with another
from the database. Selecting this option brings up the Global Replace menu. Both in-line and clamp-on devices can be
universally replaced.
l Close Closes this menu, keeping the present mooring components in memory, and returning control to the Main Menu. It
would be advisable to save a complicated mooring after each major modification.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Add/Modify Clamp-on Mooring Components
As with In-Line Elements, this menu is used to add/modify any clamp-on mooring components. Such components would
most naturally (in the real world) be attached to a wire or rope segment. However, This program allows the user to specify
the height of the desired component above the bottom, and the program will determine which in-line mooring component the
clamp-on device is attached.
l Clamp-on Device to Add/Insert. A separate list of
clamp-on devices is stored, and this index is a nonsequential pointer to the clamp-on devices. When the
mooring components are displayed, a separate list is

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 10 of 39

displayed if there are any clamp-on devices. Each clamp-on
device is listed with it's index, and this displayed index should be used with adding/deleting clamp-on devices. Usually, this
index is incremented, but the device heights may not be sequential.
l Delete Clamp-on Element Editable string, where an existing clamp-on device number (index) is entered in order to
delete this device. The deletion is not executed until the "Execute Update" button is pushed. You should "click" Display
Elements both before and after deleting an element to confirm the new list of mooring elements/clamp-on devices and their
associated element number/index.
l Load Different Database This option allows a user to maintain a variety of databases, and load a new or user specific
database of mooring components as necessary. When loaded, the component type and components displayed in the following
menu items may change.
l Misc Instrument (and other mooring component types) This is a pull down menu. Click on the
button to reveal the
available list of database component types.
l Branker TR1000 (and other mooring components/devices) A pull-down menu to select the desired mooring component
from a list of the available database components for this mooring component type. Click on the
button to reveal the
available list of components, then click on the component. The mooring component lists will be updated only after the
"Execute Update" button is pushed.
l Display Elements This button will generate a list of the present mooring elements and their respective number in the
main Matlab® Command Window.
l Execute Update Once selected, this button incorporates the changes (additions/deletions) into the mooring array.
l Close Closes this menu, keeping the present mooring components in memory, and returning control to the Main Menu. It
would be advisable to save a complicated mooring after each major modification.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Add/Modify a Towed Body
As with In-Line Elements, this menu is used to
add/modify in-line components associated
with a towed body. Such components would
most naturally (in the real world) include the
towed body, fasteners, wire/rope, and the
mandatory "top-of-tow-rope" device. Three
towed body configurations are possible in
MD&D. First is a simple towed body, with a
body, wire, and "top-of-tow-rope" device (The
"top-of-tow-rope" device is necessary as, the
wire actually continues out of the water to the
block at the A-frame, but MD&D needs to
know where the surface is. The second
available configuration would include a
"heavy" (sinking) weight at some distance
along the tow wire. This configuration is
sometimes used to force a towed device to
depths deeper than would be accomplished
without the weight. The third configuration
involves placing a "float" along the tow wire,
effectively de- coupling the towed body from
any pitching and heaving of the ship. MD&D
allows for a single in-line float. Multiple floats
will confuse the program, as it needs to split
the mathematical solution into two parts
(ahead-of and behind the float).
l

Element to Add/Insert. This editable

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 11 of 39

number specifies the next towed body element
to add or modify in the configuration. For towed bodies, the program works from the bottom (towed body) to the top (top-oftow-rope). Usually, the index is incremented to be one larger than the number of elements presently in the tow line. The
addition is not preformed until the "Execute" button is pressed.
l Delete Element Editable string, where an existing towed body component number (index) is entered in order to delete
this device. The deletion is not executed until the "Execute Update" button is pushed. You should "click" Display
Elements both before and after deleting an element to confirm the new list of mooring elements/clamp-on devices and their
associated element number/index.
l Load Different Database This option allows a user to maintain a variety of databases, and load a new or user specific
database of mooring/towed body components as necessary. It might be desireable to maintain separate databases for towed
bodies and moorings, especially if the database(s) becomes large. When loaded, the component type and components
displayed in the following menu items will change.
l Component Type: Floatation (and other towed body component types) This is a pull down menu. Click on the
button to reveal the available list of database component types.
l Component: Top of Tow Rope (and other towed body components/devices) A pull-down menu to select the desired
component from a list of the available database components for this component type. Click on the
button to reveal the
available list of components, then click on the component. The working mooring component lists will be updated only after
the "Execute" button is pressed.
l Change Length of Wire Element # For a towed body, the most common change will simply be a lengthening or
shortening of the tow rope. To facilitate this change, rather than deleting and adding a new wire/rope element each time, the
user can select the wire/rope element to change (the element number is listed in the Command Window when the Display
Elements button is pressed), and then puss this button to change the wire/rope length. A new window will open from which
the user can edit the wire length.
l Enter Ship Velocity [U V] (m/s) This is where the user specifies and changes the ship velocity for the towed body.
The ship velocity is assumed to be in Earth coordinates, with U = East velocity and V = North velocity, both given in metres
per second (m/s). Note that 1 knot is 0.514 m/s. Use MATLAB (or other calculator) to convert a speed and compass direction
to components using "speed*exp(i*(90-heading)*pi/180)", where heading is clockwise from true north and U is the real part
and V is the imaginary part of the answer. NOTE: If the water column velocity profile is given in absolute velocities relative
to the Earth (i.e. navigated ADCP data), then the ship velocity is the velocity OVER LAND (i.e. as reported by a GPS
navigation system. If the water column velocity is not know, or set to zero (default), then the important ship velocity is that
relative to the surface water. If both are absolute (i.e. relative to land), then they will give the same result. For example, a ship
moving in the X (East) direction at one knot, is equivalent to a stationary ship in a U=-0.514 m/s current.
l Height of A-Frame Block Above Water (m) This number sets the scale of the ship, and also determines the length
of wire out of the water, from the surface to the A-frame block. For light tow bodies, or fast towing, there can be a significant
amount of wire out of the water, be tween the surface and the block. MD&D will estimate this length of wire, so that the
reported wire length is from the block to the towed body. No wind drag is calculated in the "out-of-water" wire, so a hanging
catenary shape is assumed. As with the real world, the angle of the towed body from the ship pivots at the block. If the height
of the A- frame is set to zero, no ship is plotted (ship size scales with A-frame height).
l Execute Add-Insert-Delete Operation Once the component has been selected for addition, insertion, or deleting,
this button executes the procedure.
l Display Elements This button will generate a list of the present towed body elements and their respective number in
the Matlab® Command Window.
l Close Closes this menu, keeping the present towed body components in memory, and returning control to the Main
Menu. It would be advisable to save a complicated towed body after each major modification.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Global Change/Replace Mooring Elements
This menu allows a user to make global or wholesale
changes to the mooring components of an existing
mooring.

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 12 of 39

Display Elements button lists in the main Matlab
command window all mooring components and a summary or tally of how many of each different type of mooring
component is included. For wire and rope components, the total length of material is displayed, even if this is divided into
multiple segments in the mooring.
l Change All. The mooring summary list is accessible from the Change All pull down menu, from which the user can
select a mooring component that has multiple occurrences, and then select an alternate component to replace these.
l Use the Type and Component menus to select the new component (e.g. globally replace 1/2'' shackles with 5/8"
shackles) .
l The change does not occur until the Change button is pressed. Be careful, it is possible to remove major components,
(e.g. floats) and globally replace them with inappropriate device types (e.g. anchors). The available mooring components
displayed are from the default database file (mdcodes.mat).
l The Close button closes this global change window and sends control back to the Modify Elements window.
l

Return to Modify Mooring
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Set/Load Environmental Conditions
Enter/Edit Velocities Manually to enter the velocities [U(z), V
(z), W(z) and z] using the keyboard.
l Load / Save Velocity File If velocity profile data has already
been entered and/or saved, it can/should be reloaded or saved at
this time.
3
l Enter / Edit Densities Manually Enter or Load a density [kg/m ]
profile. The mooring solution depends very weakly on density, but
if it is important, one can modify it.
l Load / Save Density File If density profile data has already been
entered and/or saved, it can/should be reloaded or saved at this
time.
l Enter Winds Allows the user to specify a surface wind, which
will apply an extra velocity kick (2% of wind speed) to the upper
ocean current speeds.
l Help brings up a simple text window with a brief description of
the types of environmental data which can be entered.

l

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Enter/Edit Velocities Manually

The Enter buttons bring up (yet) another menu which
allows the user the type in a string of delineated (spaces,
commas) values for each of the desired profiles [e.g. U(z)
and z], each with the exact same number of values,
starting from the top (surface) value to the bottom value,
which is ALWAYS associated with z(n)=0 meters, where
n is the total number of values making up the velocity
profile(s). By default the V(z) and W(z) profiles are set to
zeros. The height of the velocity and density profiles
determines the water depth which the mooring is in.
l Save Velocities Opens a system window (section 1.3)
to save the velocity (environmental) data into a standard

l

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 13 of 39

Matlab® mat file. This same environmental data can be
re-loaded using the Load Environmental Conditions option (section 1.5).
l Help opens a simple text window with simple instructions as to how to enter meaningful velocity profile data as a text
string (i.e. current values in m/s from top to bottom, where a bottom must be entered at z=0).
Back to Load Environmental Conditions
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Enter U Values
Enter the velocity values in m/s
separated by either spaces or
commas, as a text string starting
with the top (highest) value and
ending with the velocity value at
the bottom (z=0), which in most
cases should be 0 m/s. There is no
limit to the number of velocity
values in a profile. Alternately,
view the contents of the provided
velocity mat files included with
the package to see the data format,
and make/load you own velocity data from the keyboard, a model, or measured currents and save these into a mat file. The
displayed values make up the default velocity profile with speeds of 1.0, 0.6 and 0 m/s, respectively.
l OK will accept these values and potentially bring up the Enter Heights menu.
l Help displays a simple text window of help for entering the velocity profile data.
l

Back to Load Environmental Conditions
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Enter Z Values
Enter the height values in m for
the associated velocity data,
separated by either spaces or
commas, as a text string starting
with the top (highest) value and
ending at the bottom (z=0). The
number of Z values must be the
same as the number of velocity
values already entered.
Alternately, view the variables in
the provided velocity mat file
(vel001.mat) included with the
package to see the data vector format, and make/load you own velocity and density profile data from the keyboard, a model,
or measured values and save these into an appropriately named mat file. The displayed values are the default heights: 120, 10
and 0 meters.
l OK will accept these values.
l Help displays a simple text window of help for entering the velocity profile data.
l

Back to Load Environmental Conditions
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 14 of 39

Enter/Edit Densities Manually
l Enter either the density values or the height values for the
density profile. The solution needs a local density value, so you
can enter a specific density structure, or default to a simple
stratified ocean [1024 kg/m3 at surface 1026 kg/m3 at bottom].
l Save Density Profile brings up the save Matlab® file menu
for saving the density profile data for future retrieval.
l Help brings up a simple text window describing the
minimum data entry procedures for entering density profile data
as a space or comma delineated text string.

Back to Load Environmental Conditions
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Enter Density Values
Enter either the density values or the height
values for the density profile as text strings
procedures by either spaces or commas. The
solution needs a local density values (stored in
vector/variable "rho"), so you can enter a specific
density structure, or default to a simple linearly
stratified ocean [1024 kg/m3 at surface, 1026
kg/m3 at bottom].
l OK brings up a similar window to enter or edit
the heights for the density values.
l Help brings up a simple text window describing
the minimum data entry procedures for entering
density profile data as a space or comma
procedures text string.
l

Back to Load Environmental Conditions
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Enter Winds
Enter the wind speed [m/s] and direction
[degrees from North in meteorological convention,
i.e. the direction from which the wind is blowing].
The 2% velocity "kick" penetrates to depths below
the surface at approximately 1 m for every m/s of
wind speed (regardless of the density profile), so a
10 m/s wind penetrates an additional linearly
decreasing velocity profile down about 10 m in the
direction of the wind (no Ekman spiral). The
maximum wind penetration is 80% of the water
column, assuming that a bottom boundary layer
will exist within which wind forcing is
negligible/dampened.
l OK returns and stores the surface wind vectors
(in East and North components).

l

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide
l

Page 15 of 39

Help brings up a simple text window describing the minimum data entry procedures for entering environmental data.

Back to Load Environmental Conditions
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Display Currents
Pressing this button will display the current velocity and density profile values in the main Matlab® Command Window. To
plot these profiles, one can simply enter regular Matlab® plotting commands at the command prompt. I have not included a
profile plotting set of routines in this package since there are many ways to present such data, and most oceanographic users
will have specific needs and desires with regard to their hydrographic and velocity data. A set of simple plotting commands
might look like:
>> figure
>> plot(U(:,1),z,'r',V(:,1),z,'b');
>> xlabel('Velocities U=red, V=blue [m/s]');
>> ylabel('Height Above Bottom [m]');

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Evaluate and Plot 3-D Mooring
Once a "complete" mooring has been designed, which includes, from top to
bottom, floatation, wires, fasteners and instruments, and an anchor, and
appropriate environmental conditions have been entered (i.e. current profile
(s)) that either exceed the height of the mooring (for sub-surface) or extend
to the surface (for shallow or surface moorings), then a "solution" can be
sought. If a time series of current profiles (time dependent solution) has
been loaded, then the user will have to specify at which time a solution is
sought. The "Select Time" window shows the start and end times of the
time dependent currents (user specified units). An "Edit Time" option
allows the user to edit the approximate (closest) time for which a solution is
sought. This exact time will be displayed on the 3-D mooring plot. If a single current profile has been set (not a time
dependent solution), then this menu is not displayed.
Initiated from the Main Menu for a time
independent solution or by clicking "OK" in
the "Select Time" window for a time
dependent solution, the mathematical solution
is evaluated using an iterative approach,
repositioning the mooring components in the
water column (i.e. velocity and density
profiles) according to the wire angle and
orientation after each iteration. First, a
solution is sought with a zeroed velocity
profile. This provides an estimate of the
component heights under tension, but without
currents. Then, a solution is sought with the
mooring forced by the specified velocity
profile. The Matlab® Command Window,
(shown here) displays a "dot" for each
iteration. Once the vertical position of the top
most mooring element (usually a floatation device) changes by less than 0.01 m between iterations, it is assumed a solution

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 16 of 39

has been found. Strongly sheared current profiles may make convergence difficult. The type of solution is then displayed
(either a surface or sub-surface mooring), and the total, vertical, and horizontal tensions [measured in kg] acting on the
anchor are displayed, followed by "estimates" of the safe anchor mass necessary to hold the mooring in position, based on
both the vertical (VWa) and horizontal (HWa) tensions according to 1.5*(VWa + HWa/0.6), which incorporates drag and lift
safety factors, and is adopted from the Mooring Group at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. Also displayed are the
equivalent dry anchor masses in terms of both steel and concrete. After a solution has been found, the tensions at and
positions of all major mooring components and at the ends of each wire segment can be displayed by clicking the Display
Mooring Elements button from the Main Menu.

After the solution has been found, the three-dimensional
mooring shape is plotted, and a Modify Plot menu is displayed
that will allow you to modify the plot (i.e. plot title, orientation,
view, etc.). The view angles are standard three-dimensional
controls, explained by the help available for the "plot3" and
"view" commands. Alternately, the view of the mooring can be
modified by clicking the
button, and then
using the mouse to click-and-drag on the figure axes to rotate
the view. (The help for the Matlab® command "rotate3d" is
automatically displayed in the Matlab® Command Window
when this button is clicked.) The U and V velocity profiles can
be plotted against the Y and X faces of the plot, respectively, normalized to the scale of the axes by clicking on the "Plot
Velocity Profiles" button.

When the water depth (as defined by the height of the velocity
profile) is near or at the top of the mooring (i.e. in the case of a
surface mooring), then a blue wave field is plotted. Additional
plot controls can be entered manually from the Matlab®
Command Window. For example, axis format and titles can be
modified using the Matlab® commands for "axis" and
"xlabel"/"ylabel". Similarly, additional text or information can be
added to the plot using standard Matlab® commands. The plot
can be printed by clicking the "Print" button in the Modify Plot
menu or from the "File" pull-down menu available at the top of
the Figure window, sending the displayed figure to the "default"
printer. If you do not have a default printer that Matlab® can print
to, DO NOT click on the "Print" button. Alternately, the plot (and
for that matter any of the displayed "figures") can be printed to a
file using the "print -d device filename" option of the Matlab®
"print" command.

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 17 of 39

If the mooring is anticipated to be a SURFACE mooring (i.e. the mooring height is expected to exceed the water depth and
the top floatation device will float at the ocean surface), then one can expect a much higher number of iterations before a
converged solution is found. This is because the solution does not know a priori how much of the buoyancy of the top
floatation component(s) to use to keep the mooring "up". In fact, if the model estimates that the top floatation components
provide virtually no lifting buoyancy to the remainder of the mooring (i.e. as in the case of example mooring moor002.mat
(shown to the left) when the current speeds are reduced), especially for S-mooring configurations, then the solution may
NOT converge (i.e. tensions are near zero). If this occurs, the unnecessary floatation/wire components of the mooring are
removed and a subsequent solution is sought. If the model does strip off the upper components, a warning to this effect is
displayed in the Matlab® Command Window. An example of a mooring which poses grave convergence problems for the
solution algorithm is a simple Polypropylene mooring with multiple small float/Polypropylene segments, far exceeding the
water depth. The small tensions and large changes in the drag to buoyancy ratio with only tiny adjustments to the surface
float buoyancy prevent a "stable" solution, even though we know the mooring can exist. Trailing a line and floats on the
surface tends to have horizontal tensions only, and the vertical position and vertical tensions are naturally unstable. If you
need to know the position of such a mooring, then simply add the known length of the trailing segments to the part of the
mooring which has only a float and submerged components.

Surface Solution Output
For surface solutions, the
approximate percentage (%)
of the top floatation device
(i.e. the amount of buoyancy)
used to "hold" the mooring in
position is displayed in the
Matlab® Command Window
(see figure on right). In this
way, both the required anchor
mass and surface floatation
can be evaluated to maintain a
specific
mooring
configuration.
The user should be aware that
certain wire types do stretch under tension. In particular, nylon is used as a "bungy" wire in deep surface moorings to
maintain tension along the mooring wire, and may not "pull" the top buoy under the surface. See for example the mooring
"cdmsum2.mat", which is a mooring designed by Berteaux as part of his Cable Dynamics and Mooring Systems package,
which is available commercially. MD&D provides an identical solution, and shows how the nylon is stretched to +120% of
its original length in order to keep the mooring taut and at the surface.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Display Mooring Elements|Print
Once a mooring has been designed and/or evaluated (i.e. a solution has been found and plotted by executing the Evaluate and
Plot function), then mooring elements can be listed, or alternately the specific tensions, positions, and alignment of each
mooring component can be displayed in the Matlab® Command Window (as shown below) by clicking the Display Mooring
Elements button located on the Main Menu. A summary of the number of each component type and total wire/rope lengths is
also displayed. This list can also be printed to the default printer by clicking the Print button next to the Display Mooring
Elements button. A full page can display a mooring with 80 components. Printing this list will temporarily open a new figure
window within which the mooring components are listed. This temporary window should close automatically once the list
has been sent to the printer.

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 18 of 39

Shown in the above list of mooring elements is the component number and name, the physical length of the component, it's
buoyancy in kilograms (positive upwards), the height to the middle of the component when forced by the specified currents,
the Vertical (dZ), North (dX) and East (dY) displacements from the vertical mooring in zero currents, the tension in
kilograms at the top and bottom of each segment, and the total angle in degrees from the vertical at the top and bottom of
each segment. The horizontal displacements dX and dY are associated with the current components U and V, respectively,
which are typically associated with currents in the (positive) North and East directions, respectively. If entered, vertical
velocities (W) are positive upwards. This output was generated for example mooring "moor001.mat" included with the
package

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Plot Mooring|Print
Once a mooring has been
designed, it's components
can be plotted by clicking
the Plot Mooring button

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 19 of 39

from the Main Menu, or the
plot can be printed to the default printer by clicking the Print button next to the Plot Mooring button. If a solution has been
found, then the length of each mooring component and the height above the bottom of each major component is displayed
alongside the graphic plot of the mooring elements (see figure to the right). User specific components will not be drawn
accurately, but the user can develop a routine (e.g. pltMYdevice.m) to plot specific components and associate these routines
with the component name in plot_elements.m, the routine that generates the mooring plot.
The plot can be saved into a file using the Matlab® Command Window and the Matlab® print command. For example, a
color postscript file containing the mooring plot with a new title could be generated by typing:
>> title('A Simple Mooring');
>> print -f5 -dpsc2 moor01.ps

Note that the mooring is NOT drawn to scale. In particular, the wire segments are displayed as a fraction of their actual
length. True deep water moorings have a large vertical to horizontal aspect ratio, as the ocean does, and the mooring devices
would only show up as small dots. Note also that connecting devices (shackles, chain, etc.) are not draw in detail, or listed on
the plot. For a complete "component" list, click the Display Mooring Elements button on the Main Menu.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Set/Enter the Desired Depth [m]
There are two primary modes of solution for a
towed body. First is to set the in water wire length,
prescribe a ship speed and estimate the depth of the
towed body. The second, is to set the desired depth,
and let the model estimate the required wire length
with the prescribed ship speed and current profile.
This menu allows the user the enter a numeric value
(in metres), which sets the program into the
"second" mode and then return the Main Menu, where the solution can be sought.
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Add/Examine Elements in Database
The usefulness of Mooring Design and
Dynamics is greatly enhanced by
maintaining an accessible database of
frequently used mooring components. In
particular, it is anticipated that you will
have access to a wide and varied, and
possible unique selection of mooring
hardware, fasteners, and instruments. To
this end MD&D has the capability of
editing, adding and deleting components
to/from the database. The original
database included with MD&D was built
from Clark Darnall's (APL, Seattle)
MOORDSGN program and has sufficient
material to build a significant variety of
moorings. An original database can
always be restored from disk, a backup
copy, or retrieved via FTP from the
Internet. It would be wise to backup the original database (file mdcodes.mat) before making edits.

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 20 of 39

Clicking the Add/Examine Elements in Database button for the first time from the Main Menu opens a system window
displaying the *.mat files available in the MD&D directory. By default, the original database file mdcodes.mat is opened,
but if a user has developed their own database, or renamed the default file, then select the appropriate file for editing/viewing.
Unfortunately, the whole world (North America) has not gone metric. As a result, many mooring "hardware" components are
still referenced in terms of imperial measurements (i.e. 1/2 inch chain, 5/8 inch shackle, 3/8 inch wire). However, the
formulae in MD&D use metric units (i.e. kilograms and meters). Just to further confuse the issue, I have set the units for
mooring component dimensions to centimeters [1 cm = 1/100 m], which is a more natural unit for measuring oceanographic
devices. Consequently, component names often refer to the "manufacturers" unit (i.e. inches), the buoyancy is in kilograms
[kg], while component dimensions are in centimeters [cm]. Until manufacturers (in North America) sell chain in metric units,
I'll maintain this "mix" of units.
Once "opened", the Add/Delete Element menu is displayed (see figure below). Pull down menu items
identify preset lists
that can not be edited or modified. Editable menu items and element characteristics are displayed as menu items with a
description on the left, and an edit window on the right.

Add/Delete/Modify Elements in Database
l Element Type (Floatation, Wire, Chain (including
fasteners), Current Meter, Acoustic Release, Anchor,
Misc Instrument) Select the type of mooring element.
l Selected Element (i.e. 61in ORE) The name of the
selected element.
l Add/Delete/Modify Element Select to either add,
delete, or modify an element.
l Element Name Enter the elements name (max 16
char).
l Buoyancy Enter the submerged buoyancy in kg (+
upwards).
l Dimensions Enter three dimensions in cm (height,
width, diameter).
l Drag Coefficient Enter the drag coefficient.
l Material Select the approximate material type,
used primarily for determining the modulus of
elasticity for "stretching" under tension calculations.
l Add/Delete/Modify Add, Delete, or Modify the
elements in the database.
l Help Display some simple help.
l Save Save the new database.
l Close Close this window and return to the Main
Menu.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC
Element Type
The top option in the Add/Examine Database function allows the user to select the category or general mooring hardware
type. The available mooring component types are: Floatation, Wire, Chain and Shackles (including special fasteners such
as swivels), Current Meter, Acoustic Release, Anchor, or Misc Instruments. Most of these categories are self
explanatory. Floatation devices primarily includes positive buoyancy spheres. Strings of commonly used combinations of
floatation (i.e. a string of three 16 inch Viny floats) can be added to the database for frequent retrieval. The buoyancy for
such "combined" elements should include the net buoyancy. The Wire type includes steel and non-steel ropes.
The category Chains also includes fasteners such as shackles. Due to the important role played by chain and shackles in
designing a good mooring, I have included a separate document with typical/available chain and shackle specifications.
Images included with this package are scanned pages of chain and shackle specifications from Myers, Holm and McAllister.

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 21 of 39

These images are best printed when they are loaded separately into a browser or image view software. The information is
provided to assist in determining the size, weight, and strength characteristics of various steel chains, shackles and joiners.
One inch is equal to 2.54 cm. The conversion from lb (pounds) to kg is 1 kg = 2.2046 lb. Steel retains approximately 87% of
it's weight (buoyancy) in seawater. Therefore a 20 lb length of chain weighs 20[lb]/2.2046[lb/kg] = 9.072 [kg] in air, and
9.072[kg]*0.87=7.91 [kg] in seawater. Since it is heavier than seawater, we would assign it a negative buoyancy of -7.91 kg.
MD&D requires weight/length of chain and wire to be entered as the buoyancy per unit meter of length. For example, in the
table (buoychain.gif) for buoy chain, the weights are given in pounds (lb) per 15 fathoms of length, which equals
approximately 27.432 m (6ft = 1 fathom = 1.8288m). So for 1/2 inch buoy chain, with a weight of 210 lb per 15 fathoms, the
buoyancy per unit metre is: -210[lb/fathom]/27.432[m/fathom] = -7.6553[lb/m] /2.2046[lb/kg] = -3.4724[kg/m] *0.87 = 3.021 [kg/m]. Further, working load limits are most often given in "tons" (short ton) which is 2000 [lb], or 907.3 [kg]

Return to Add/Delete/Modify Element
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC
Select Element
Once the type of mooring element has been selected, then the database list of available elements for this type is loaded into
the menu, and the user can pull down/view the list by clicking the
button. Use the mouse to highlight or select an element.
By default the first item in the list is selected. Once an element has been selected, it's name, buoyancy, dimensions, drag
coefficient and material are displayed in the appropriate windows.

Return to Add/Delete/Modify Element
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC
Add/Delete/Modify Element
This option specifies whether the existing element is to be deleted or modified, or that a new element will be added. Once one
of these options has been selected, the "action" button in the lower left of the menu should show the present option selected
(either Add, Delete, or Modify). This is an internal consistency check to reduce the likelihood that a mistake will not be made
and elements will not be modified or deleted until the correct "action" button is actually pushed. During the Add option, the
five element characteristic menu item can be changed. In particular, the Name of the element must be changed, as the
database can not store identical named elements with different characteristics. Be aware however, that the name may include
spaces, and very similar names will be accepted, even if the elements are intended to be the same. When Modifying an
element, the name should remain the same, but the remaining four element characteristics (buoyancy, dimensions, drag
coefficient, and material) can be changed. Once the characteristics have been entered correctly, the action button (Add or
Modify) will update that elements characteristics in the "loaded" database. If the element is to be Deleted, than do not edit the
element characteristics (why bother), just characteristics the appropriate element, and click the Delete "action button. Once
the action button has been pushed, the entire routine re-initializes. The user should confirm that the desired changes have
been integrated into the resident database. These changes are NOT YET STORED in a database file. To save these database
changes, the user MUST click the Save button (lower right). This subsequently brings up a system window where the user
can specify the new/updated database filename. By default the MD&D program selects and loads the database file named:
mdcodes.mat. Therefore, it is recommended that you make a backup of the original mdcodes.mat file, and save subsequent
modifications into the default file, mdcodes.mat.

Return to Add/Delete/Modify Element
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC
Element Name
This is an editable menu item, within which one can type the NEW element name to Add to the database. There is no need to
edit this item during either a Delete or Modify action. The element name is limited to 16 ASCII characters, including spaces.
The name should identify the element, and should be sufficiently descriptive as to remind the user of the specific
characteristics of the element (i.e. size, buoyancy, manufacturer, etc.).

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 22 of 39

Return to Add/Delete/Modify Element
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC
Buoyancy [kg]
The buoyancy of the element is given in kilograms [kg], where positive buoyancy represents objects that have an upward
buoyancy force when submerged under water, and negative buoyancy represents a downward force. To determine buoyancy,
one needs to know the mass and displacement (volume) of the object. The net buoyancy (value require here) is the mass of
seawater displaced (volume [m3] x 1025 [kg m-3]) minus the mass [kg] of the device. If the device floats, then the mass of
seawater displaced by the volume of the object will be more than the mass of the object, and the buoyancy will be positive. If
the device sinks, then the mass of seawater displaced will be less than the mass of the device and the buoyancy will be
negative.

Return to Add/Delete/Modify Element
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC
Dimensions [cm]
At the moment, all devices are treated as either cylinders or spheres. Perhaps surprisingly, with the appropriate selection of a
drag coefficient, this approximation provides sufficient accuracy for most oceanographic instruments. It does not, however,
accommodate very complex devices that may hinge, flex, or change shape when submerged or under tension. Nor is cable
motion and strumming considered in this model, which may be an issue for devices with more complex shapes. But even for
such devices, a reasonable approximation to the effective drag and shape of the device can be approximated using appropriate
orientation and adjustments to the drag coefficient.
Three dimensions are required to define the type and shape to the device, and the effective surface area over which the fluid
drag will "work". The first dimension is the device's vertical height [these dimensions are given in cm]. For a vertical
mooring, this is the amount of length added to the mooring height by the inclusion of this device in the mooring. The second
dimension is for cylinders, and specifies the diameter (width) of the cylinder. If the device is a sphere (or is better
approximated by a sphere, i.e. has isotropic drag characteristics), then set the second dimension to zero (0). The third
dimension is for spheres, and specifies the diameter (D = 2 x radius) of the sphere. For cylinders, set the third dimension to
zero (0). For cylinder devices (i.e. devices that are anisotropic), the "un-tilted" surface area is simply the height multiplied by
the diameter. The effective surface area for drag calculations will taken into account the tilting of the device when the
"solution" is sought.
For a spheres, the surface area is pi x (D/2)2 = pi x radius2, and does not change with tilting. The setting of a devices
effective dimensions, not necessarily the true dimensions, for drag calculations may involve detailed knowledge of how the
device will "hang", what the effective drag coefficient will be, and the devices "preferred" orientation in a flow. If the device
is streamlined and will orient itself in a flow, then the dimensions should be set to represent the effective surface area looking
head-on to the object down the direction of the flow. For devices that can orient themselves in the flow, the mooring should
include swivels, preferably seine bearing style which can support approximately one ton (2000 lb, or more). The combination
of a sphere (set the third dimension to the effective diameter for the exposed surface area) and the appropriate choice of a
drag coefficient can represent the hydrodynamics of most objects, even very complex "caged" instruments which may bear
no resemblance to a true sphere. Hydrodynamically, all we need to do is calculate the drag forces. Imagine holding a rope
attached to some device, with ones eyes closed. There is tension, and we really don't care what shape the device is that is
providing that tension. Following Galileo, a similar analogy is to try and determine an objects material and shape, given only
it's weight. Two objects can provide identical drag forces, even though they may look and be quite different in size and shape.
However, complex instruments may provide torque, twist a mooring, and have hydrodynamic lift. None of these
characteristics are considered here.
All device dimensions must be entered in centimeters [cm] and within the range 0 to 9999 cm (99.99 m).

Return to Add/Delete/Modify Element
Return to The Main Menu

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 23 of 39

Return to Users Guide TOC
Drag Coefficient
There is much literature on the effective fluid drag on
objects (i.e. Schlichting, 1968). However, apart from
spheres, with which drag and fluid viscosity are
effectively defined, there are few formulae to calculate a
direct fluid drag coefficient according to a simple set of
body dimensions. Most fluid drag data is empirical and
obtained by direct measurement of different objects and
orientations in flows of varying speed. Additional factors
such as surface roughness and any flanges also play
critical roles in determining the effective fluid drag and
the resulting forces acting on submerged objects. For our
purposes, it will be assumed that the Reynolds Number
(Ud/ ) of the flow past the object is relatively large, and
verging on either the transition from laminar to turbulent
flow (Reynolds Number > 100), or turbulent flow (i.e.
Reynolds Number >= 1000). Streamlined objects can have
relatively low drag coefficients (0.1), while blunt objects
that introduce considerable wake may have a drag
coefficient as high as 3 to 4.
The user can enter the known drag coefficient, with a
range limited between 0 and 9.99. A typical drag coefficient for a "painted" large (100 cm diameter) sphere is 0.65, while a
small sphere (20 cm) may have a drag coefficient as high as 1.0. A cylinder will have a drag coefficient in the range 1.0 to
1.3, with larger cylinders have slightly lower drag than small. If your device has specific surface roughness or shape designed
to reduce the net drag, then these approximate drag coefficients should be reduced slightly.
For extremely accurate simulations, it will be necessary to have accurate device information and/or data. The data may be of
the form of an actual drag (force) measurements on an object in a flow, or pressure/position data from a previous mooring
deployment. For example, if you have the capability to do a test deployment with a device, then place the device on a simple
mooring in a current stream similar to that which might be experienced in the final deployment scenario. Pressure/position
sensors will need to be mounted near the top and bottom of the mooring, or at least immediately above the device for which a
drag coefficient is desired. The test mooring should be as simple as possible (i.e. a float, wire, pressure gauge, the device,
wire, acoustic release and anchor). Record the pressure record at the device for a variety of flow conditions (i.e. weak and
strong flows). Ideally, the flow/velocity profile should be measured, with perhaps an Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler. With
MD&D, design a similar test mooring and simulate the exact current conditions from the test deployment using the measured
currents. By adjusting the drag coefficient for the device, one should be able to "match" the observed pressure records to
within a few percent. Using simple spheres and the "text" book drag coefficients, I have data and simulations that are within
1%.

Return to Add/Delete/Modify Element
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC
Material
In order to predict accurate mooring positions, it is necessary to consider the stretching of mooring components while under
tension. Elongation is determined as a percentage increase in a components height when under tension. For most mooring
instruments (e.g. current meters), the net increase in mooring height is negligible because the component takes up a relatively
small fraction of the mooring height. However, for wire and rope, this is not the case. In particular, nylon is often used
because it stretches without significant lose of tensile strength, and therefore provides a source of elasticity in keeping the
mooring wire taut. The present set of materials available within MD&D includes: steel, aluminum, nylon, Dacron,
polypropylene, polyethylene and Kevlar.
The percentage of elongation is determined according to the material's Youngs Modulus of Elasticity (M). Once under

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 24 of 39

tension, the "stretched" length of a wire/rope segment Li is calculated according to,

where Hi is the unstretched length of the element or wire segment, Ti is the tension in Newtons on the element, Ri is the
radius of the element, and Mi is the Youngs modulus of elasticity for the material. Specifically, the fractional increase is
proportional to the tension and inversely proportional to the cross sectional area.

Return to Add/Delete/Modify Element
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC
Add/Delete/Modify
Once the desired element has been selected, and appropriate information has been entered or edited in the displayed fields,
then the desired action is actually executed by clicking the appropriately labeled button in the lower left of the window. The
label and action are set by the pull down list near the top of the window. This action actually only updates the data presently
loaded in memory, and the actual database file is not updated until you click the Save button.

Return to Add/Delete/Modify Element
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC
Save
Once the mooring component database information has been updated and checked by viewing and expecting the
new/modified elements, then the user should save the database to file. This action will bring up a system save window. The
user will be required to select an existing file (default database filename is mdcodes.mat), or enter a new filename. It is
always a good idea to save or rename the old database file before you over-write it. If for some reason the numbers didn't get
entered properly, or the database was corrupted during the edits, then it will be an easy operation to recover the original (and
working) database, and re-enter the edits.

Return to Add/Delete/Modify Element
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Make/Load/Save a Movie: Time Dependant Solutions
When time dependent current data is available, one can Make a Movie, or a Time Dependant set of solutions of the mooring
component positions. This may be done purely for visualization or one may wish to compile a detailed time history of the
vertical position of a set of
sensors so that mooring motion
can actually be corrected for in
the data. In order to make a time
series of mooring shapes, it is
necessary to have a time series
of current profiles. Ideally, such
a time series will represent the
currents at the mooring location,
either from a local Acoustic
Doppler
Current
Profiler
(ADCP) mooring, ship board
ADCP, current meters on the

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 25 of 39

mooring, or even from a tidal or
hydrodynamic model. The accuracy of the simulation (mooring shape) will only be as good as the current time series
represents the currents acting on the mooring. Even small changes in current shear (the vertical structure of the current) can
have a dramatic impact on the mooring shape. Note, that each solution is a static solution, assuming that the mooring has had
time to reach a stable position.
Shown here are two times series of sensor height as measured by a pressure sensor located near the top of a thermistor chain
mooring deployed in Juan de Fuca Strait in July 1997 and the simulated height of the sensor modeled using MD&D. The
actual mooring was forced by strong tides (+/- 1.5 m/s) and experienced a tilting in excess of 15 metres. An ADCP was
deployed near (approximate 400m away) the thermistor chain mooring, and a 15 minute time series extracted from the ADCP
data was used to simulate mooring motion using MD&D. The agreement is very good (within a few percent), especially
considering that there was considerable shear and spatial variability in the velocity data. For this data, the height of all the
thermistors was then corrected for mooring motion and the "true" internal wave characteristics of the environment are being
studied.
MD&D allows the user to make and save movies, or load and re-display previously made movies of moorings forced by time
dependent currents. When moordesign is started, the Main Menu displays the option to "Load a Movie". This button brings
up a system window from which the user can click or select a mat file of a previously saved movie. Two example movie mat
files (movie001ts.mat and movie002ts.mat) are included with the MD&D) package. Once a movie is loaded, the Main
Menu displays both the "Load a Movie" and Show Movie options. The Show Movie button will bring up a menu that allows
the user to select the number of times to cycle through the movie, the frame rate, a figure scale factor and a "Play" button.
To Make a movie or produce a time dependent set of mooring component positions, it is necessary to both load or design a
mooring, and then load a time dependent set of current profiles. An example mat file with a simple time dependent set of
current profiles in included with MD&D in the file velts.mat. Five matrices are required: U(i,j), V(i,j), W(i,j), z(i), time(j),
where U,V,W are the north, east, and vertical velocity profile matrices with z(i) heights as the rows, including the surface and
bottom (z(i)=0), and time(j) as the time base for the columns (user defined units [i.e. seconds, hours, days], although I find
Julian day the most useful). In addition, one can include time dependent density profiles by specifying rho(i,j) values,
otherwise rho is a single and constant profile. Due to the advanced nature of this option, I have not included a menu to "edit"
time dependent currents, and the user will need to generate the necessary matrices in the Matlab® Command Window, either
manually, or synthetically (i.e. sine and cosine waves), or from user supplied data. When a mooring and a time dependent set
of environmental profiles have been loaded, they can be saved together in a mooring mat file. An example time dependent
mooring mat file moor002ts.mat is included in the MD&D package. When the necessary time dependent data has been
loaded, the Main Menu will display the option to Make a Time Series.

Make a Time Series
Once the necessary time dependent data has been loaded, a movie or time dependent set of mooring positions can be sought
by clicking the "Make Movie" button from the Main Menu. This brings up a menu to select the time interval to work with
(shown here on the right). Since the program will calculate a "static" mooring
solution for each time step in the time dependent data, it may be desirable to select
a sub-set of the time interval. This menu shows the full time base stored in the
vector time(j). The user can edit the displayed time interval to any values within or
including the end time values. The default time window is the entire time base. The
program will select the "closest" start and end time marks within the values entered.
Then click the "Generate Time Series" button to initiate the process of finding a
mooring solution for each time step within the selected time interval. It may be
necessary to click the button twice in order to register the edited values. The
Matlab® Command Window will then display the progress of finding the time
dependent solutions, showing the percent completed and the "solution found"
dialogue for each time step (i.e. either a surface or subsurface solution with the
estimated anchor tensions for that time period). Once completed, the time
dependent solution data is in memory, and the user can either save this information, or proceed to Make a Movie. If the time
dependent solutions have already been found, and the user has returned to the Main Menu, then the "Make Movie" option is
displayed on both the "Main" and the "Make a Time Series" menus.

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 26 of 39

Make a Movie
Once the time dependent solutions of mooring positions and tensions are
in memory, the user can make an animation or movie of the time
dependent mooring shape. When the "Make Movie" button has been
clicked, a menu is displayed to set the figure characteristics for the movie
frame. Matlab® produces movies rather inefficiently. The routine
compresses the 2-D screen (pixel) image into a vector of values, and
stores the time dependent vectors in a matrix. There is no attempt to save
just the "changed" pixels (i.e. as in mpeg), so that every frame takes up
an equal amount of space. This results in potentially huge matrices. To
aid in reducing the amount of memory and disk space required, MD&D
gives the user an option to reduce the size of the figure by setting the
"Figure Scale Factor". One can increase the figure window size by
setting the "Figure Scale Factor" to a number greater than 1, but a
maximum factor of 1.6 is assumed (full screen). In addition, the user can
set the view angles (azimuth and elevation), the figure title, the time
interval (which can be a sub-set of the time dependent solutions times),
and the axis scale [in m, allowing a uniform view if multiple moorings
are to be compared]. When one or more of these editable items is
changed, it may be necessary to click the window or "Make a Movie"
button more than once (allowing the program to stored the changed
values). A new figure(3) is then displayed and the mooring solution at each time step is plotted and saved into a movie
matrix. Since Matlab® saves the pixel values when making a movie, the plot/mooring figure must be visible on the screen
during the making of a movie matrix.
Once the entire time series has been saved into a movie matrix, the Show Movie option is available from the Main Menu. It is
also recommended that the movie be saved in it's own mat file using the "Save Movie" option from the Main Menu. Note that
there is a Matlab® mex routine "mpgwrite.mex" which, when compiled, will take a Matlab® movie matrix and turn it into an
MPEG file.
NOTE: Matlab® versions 5.0, 5.1 and 5.2 have a known bug when trying to make a movie with the computer hardware set to
display 24-bit (true color) color resolution. Matlab® still (even though it now can store higher dimension matrices) stores a
movie as a 2-D matrix, with one component representing time and the other a set of numbers, each representing an entire
column of pixel values. To do this, the routine must compress the pixel values for an entire column into a single number.
Previous versions of Matlab® used 8-bit color maps for "movie". Matlab® version 5.3 has fixed the problem. If you are
using Matlab® 5.0-5.2, and have 24-bit color, then the movie will be gabbled on playback. You will have to physically
reduce the color depth (i.e. for Windows, right click the desktop, select Properties, Settings, Color Palette) to 16-bit (<=65536
colors) prior to making the movie.

Show a Movie
Once a movie has been generated
and/or loaded, it can be
displayed. At this time the user
can select the number of times
the movie is to be cycled
through. It may appear that the
movie is always played at least
twice. This is because Matlab®
loads the frames first, and then
plays the movie the desired
number of times, at the selected
fps (frames per second). Versions
of Matlab® prior to 5.3 may not
play the exact fps, but this does
provide relative speed control. In

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 27 of 39

addition, the actual frame rate realized may depend on the memory and
speed of the computer used to display the movie. The "Figure Scale Factor" is also displayed, although there should be no
reason to change this value at show time, as it was set when the movie matrix was created. Re-setting the "Figure Scale
Factor" here will set the figure window size, but not the size of the axes stored in the movie matrix. Note that the projection
of the mooring wire/rope is plotted on all three planes. This allows one to see the extent of the displacement in the X, Y and
Z directions. Clicking "Play Movie" will do exactly that.

Using the Time Dependant Solution
When a movie is saved, the time dependent solutions (tensions and component positions) are saved. When solving for a
solution, the algorithm breaks the wire/rope components into small segments, so that many points along the mooring are
solved for and the mooring shape is realistic. However, the positions of the main mooring components (i.e. sensors) are most
likely of interest. The primary time dependent matrices include: M (the movie), Tits(i,j) the tensions between the
"segments" (components) of the mooring, Xts(i,j), Yts(i,j) and Zts(i,j) the horizontal and height positions of the mooring
components relative to the anchor, iobjts(m,j) are the indices into these (i,j) matrices for the "main" mooring components
(e.g. floatation, current meters, acoustic releases, anchor, and misc, excluding fasteners, wire/chain, etc.), psits(i,j) are the
angles from vertical for each mooring segment, and ts(j) are the times. Note that typically iobjts(i,1)=iobjts(i,2)=iobjts(i,3)
=..., since for most time dependent moorings the component position in the mooring is constant. However, it is possible that
during a time dependent solution, an ill-posed surface solution arises, at which time the top part of the mooring may be
removed, changing the location of the remaining devices. This is rare, and should not be an issue for most users. If a current
meter is the third device on a mooring, then the time series of the first 100 vertical positions of the current meter can be
plotted by typing:
>> plot(ts(1:100),Zts(iobjts(3,1),1:100))

Similarly, the tensions, angles, or horizontal positions of any mooring section can be plotted or analyzed. In this way, the
time history of the position for any mooring component (i.e. sensor) can be estimated. If an instrument's performance
depends on it's vertical angle (i.e. a rotor current meter), then a measure of the performance is generated by the time
dependent solution.
Since these variables are most useful by themselves, I will briefly discuss the time dependent variables. Once a time series
has been generated, the user should "save the movie" from the main menu to save all the time dependent variables (without
necessarily making a movie). These variables include:
Xts, Yts, Zts, Tts, and psits

which are the X (east), Y (north), Z (height), tension [N] and tilt (radians) of the segmented mooring components,
respectively. The primary components are listed by their names in the variable:
iEle

which contains an index counter (1 to the number of major components), the original mooring component number (as listed
by the Main Menu), and the major component name. The first dimension of iEle should be the same size as that of
iobjts

which is a look-up table relating the major mooring components to their "segmented" position in the mooring (recall that a
solution is sought along the mooring with each wire/rope/chain section sub-divided into multiple segments so as to give a
more realistic mooring shape). In order to find/use the time series position data (Xts,Yts,Zts), lets assume that an S4 current
meter is listed as being
iEle(9,:)="9 10 InterOcn S4 CM"

Then the segmented index for this mooring component is

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 28 of 39

iobjts(9,:)

This index will typically not change throughout the time series so iobjts(9,:)=iobjts(9,1). Lets assume that iobjts(9,1)=14,
meaning this device (S4 CM) is the 14th component in the segmented mooring. Therefore to plot the height and tilt (in
degrees) of this device we would type:
>> plot(ts,Zts(iobjts(9,1),:),ts,psits(iobjts(9,1),:)*180/pi);

We may require similar information for clamp-on devices. This information is stored in separate variables:
Xcots, Ycots, Zcots, and psicots

which are the positions and tilts of the components (tension is taken by the mooring component these are clamped onto). I
have not made a separate name list of clamp on devices as this is automatically generated by the "Display" feature of the
main menu. The segmented index of each clamped on device is stored in the variable:
Iobjts

while Jobjts and Pobjts tell us which mooring component the devices are clamped onto and the percentage along that
mooring component (most likely wire or rope). Therefore a plot of the height and tilt of the third clamp-on device would be
generated by:
>> plot(ts,Zcots(Iobjts(3,1),:),ts,psicots(Iobjts(3,1),:)*180/pi);

I use the time series of component heights to correct for mooring motion. The time series of component height are Zts(iobjts
(#,1),:) for major component # and Zcots(Iobjts(#,1),:) for clamp-on device #. To get the pressure (depth) of a mooring
component, one must know the water depth at the mooring and the tidal variation at the mooring site, then
Pressure=Water_Depth - Zts(iobjts(9,:) + Tide_Height(:);

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Clear All
This button simply executes the Matlab® command "clear all", and is forced to include "clear global", so that both local and
global variables are cleared. Once all variables are cleared, the Main Menu is started, effectively reinitializing the program.
This is useful if mistakes are made, or if a user wishes to start afresh. Note: all changes and loaded information is lost.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Whos
This button simply executes the Matlab® command "whos", and displays a list of the program variables in the main Matlab®
command window that are presently loaded into memory, including all global variables. Since MD&D involves a
tremendous amount of switching between windows and routines, many of the common variables are defined and passed
between routines as "global" variables. Such variables are not typically listed with the "whos" command, unless one adds the
global qualifier ("whos global").

Return to The Main Menu

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 29 of 39

Return to Users Guide TOC

Main Menu: Close
This button clears all MD&D variables and closes all MD&D windows and menus. NOTE: All variables and system
information is lost when you "close" the Main Menu. Also, there is no prompt or warning to inform the user of unsaved
variables or mooring configurations. Save early, save often.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

4 The Mathematical Solution
The "model" part of MD&D (moordyn.m) solves for the positions of each mooring element using an iterative process, until
the component positions converge (within 1 cm between successive iterations). This may only take three iterations for a
simple sub-surface configuration. In a strongly sheared current and for surface moorings, however, as many as 100 iterations
may be required. Mooring element positions are solved to within 1 cm in the vertical.
The effective water depth is set by the current profile. For subsurface moorings, it is assumed that the velocity data is
sufficient to describe the currents throughout the water column, from the bottom (z=0) to a height that exceeds the vertical
height of the mooring while under tension (i.e. due to stretching). For surface moorings, the top (highest) velocity value
defines the water depth. A density profile, and even a time dependent density profile may be entered, as the drag depends on
the water density. A constant wind can be set that produces an additional 2% surface current in the direction of the wind
(modify the wind direction if you want to simulate Ekman veering), which decreases linearly to a depth that increases with
wind speed. The model will predict if the surface float gets "dragged" under the surface by the currents.
The first iteration (solution) starts with the mooring standing vertically in the water column. Once the first estimate of the
"tilted" mooring has been made, new solutions are sought with the updated positions of each element in the sheared current
used to re-calculate the local drag, considering "tilted" elements and appropriate exposed surface area. Also, now that the
wire/rope are under tension, there may be stretching. The database assumes six different rope materials may be used (i.e.
steel, aluminum, nylon, Dacron, polypropylene, polyethylene, and Kevlar), for which appropriate moduli of elasticity are
used. If the position of the top element (usually a float, or at least a positively buoyant instrument) moves less than 1 cm
between successive iterations, then it is assumed the solution has converged and the position of the mooring has been found.
Inertia is not considered, nor is vibration or snap loading. The solutions, even for time dependent simulations, are all assumed
to be (locally) "static". In strongly sheared currents, where small differences in element depth may result in significant
changes in the drag, or for surface float moorings, where the exact percentage of the required surface floatation keeping the
mooring afloat needs to be determined, many (100) iterations may be necessary. On a Pentium 133MHz PC, this may take
tens of seconds. Once the solution has converged, the 3-dimensional mooring is plotted, and the final element positions, wire
tensions, lengths and angles can be displayed or printed. Future versions may include wave and more truly dynamic forcing
of mooring strings.
The final solution assumes that each mooring element has a static vector force balance (in the x, y, and z directions), and that
between time dependent solutions the mooring has time to adjust. The forces acting in the vertical direction are: 1) Buoyancy
(mass [kg] times g [acceleration due to gravity]) positive upwards (i.e. floatation), negative downwards (i.e. an anchor), 2)
Tension from above [Newtons], 3) Tension from below, and 4) Drag from any vertical current. The model does not calculate
"lift" for an aerodynamic device. In each horizontal direction, the balance of forces is: 1) Angled Tension from above, 2)
Angled Tension from below, and 3) Drag from the horizontal velocity. Buoyancy is determined by the mass and
displacement of the device and is assumed to be a constant (no compression effects and a constant sea water density). The
buoyancy is entered in kilograms [kg, positive upwards], and converted into a force within the program. The drag is
determined for each element according to the shape, the exposed surface area of the element to the appropriate velocity
component, and a drag coefficient. Only cylinders and spherical shapes are assumed. More complicated shapes can be
approximated by either a cylinder or a sphere with an appropriate (adjusted) surface area and drag coefficient. Spheres

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 30 of 39

characterize devices whose surface area is isotropic, while cylinders are anisotropic with respect to vertical and horizontal
directions. Vained devices are "modelled" as cylinders with appropriate (user determined) surface areas and drag coefficients.
For each element there are three equations and six unknowns: tension from above, tension from below, and the two spherical
coordinate angles each mooring element makes from the vertical (z) axis ( ) and the x-y plane ( ). However, the top
floatation device has no tension from above and therefore, three unknowns and three equations. The tension and associated
tension angles between any two elements is equal and acts in opposite directions, so that the tension from above for the lower
element is equal and opposite to the tension and angles from below for the upper element. The method of solution is to
estimate the lower tension and angles for the top element (floatation), and then subsequently estimate the tension and angles
below each subsequent element. The resulting set of angles [ (z) and (z)] and element lengths determines the exact (X, Y,
Z) position of each mooring element relative to the anchor. Also, once the top of the anchor is reached, one has a direct
estimate of the necessary tension required to effectively "anchor" the mooring. The program assumes that the anchor is
stationary with respect to the ground, regardless of it's mass. The tension acting on the anchor can be inverted into an
estimate of the required anchor weight. Safety factors for both horizontal and vertical load are used to estimate a safe,
realistic anchor weight. The suggested submerged and dry anchor weights are displayed in the main Matlab® window.
Specifically, the solution is obtained as follows. First the velocity (current) and density profiles and wire/chain sections are
interpolated to approximately one metre vertical resolution using linear interpolation. The drag Q in each direction acting on
each mooring element is calculated according to,

where Qjis the drag in [N] on element "i" in water of density w in the direction "j" (x, y, or z), Uj is the velocity component
at the present depth of the mooring element which has a drag coefficient CDi appropriate for the shape of the element, with
surface area Aj perpendicular to the direction j. U is the total vector magnitude of the velocity,

at the depth of the element. The drag in all three directions [j=1(x), 2(y) and 3(z)] is estimated, including the vertical
component, which in most flows is likely to be very small and negligible.
Once the drag for each mooring element and each interpolated segment of mooring wire and chain have been calculated, then
the tension and the vertical angles necessary to hold that element in place (in the current) can be estimated. The three [x,y,z]
component equations to be solved at each element are:

where Ti is the magnitude of the wire tension from above, making spherical angles

i and

i from the vertical and in the x
and y plane, respectively, Bi is the buoyancy of the present element, g is the acceleration due to gravity (=9.81 ms-2), and

Qxi, Qyi and Qzi are the respective drag forces. The tension below this element is Ti+1, with spherical coordinate angles
i+1 and i+1. Thus each element acts dynamically as a "hinge" in
the mooring, although it may be "rigid" in reality.

The diagram to the right shows the orientation of the tension vectors,
the angles, and "hinge" characteristics for an element Ei suspended in
the middle of a mooring. Each device and each interpolated segment of
wire or chain is considered an element. In this way, the mooring is
flexible and can adjust to any necessary catenary or spiral shape
according to the sheared current profile and associated drag on each
mooring element. The convention of X = East, Y = North and Z = Up is
used, with associated current components U = Eastward, V =
Northward, and W = Upward.
Once all of the tensions and angles have been calculated, the position of

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 31 of 39

each element relative to the anchor can be determined using the length
of each element Li and summing from bottom to top, namely,

When displayed, the position of each major mooring device is listed, while the tensions and appropriate angles at the top and
bottom of each mooring wire/chain length are listed. The tilt and position of each mooring element is stored and can be saved
or retrieved within the main Matlab® command window.
The tilt of each element is taken into account when estimating the drag and surface area (2). In particular, the drag on a
spheres require no direct modification except that the actual velocity acting on it corresponds to the velocity at the depth of
the "tilted" mooring. For cylinder elements, once the mooring is tilting over, several modifications occur. First, the exposed
area in the horizontal and vertical directions change. Also, the drag is broken into tangential and normal components for each
current direction acting on the element. This holds for wire/rope/chain as well (which are treated as cylinder segments), with
tilted wire having both a reduced area and drag coefficient to a horizontal current, but increased exposure and drag in the
vertical.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

5 Examples
There are three primary mooring examples included with the MD&D package [Example 1 (MOOR001.MAT), Example 2
(MOOR002.MAT), and Example 3 (MOOR003.MAT)], that can be loaded and evaluated to see the strengths and features of
MD&D. MOOR002.MAT and MOOR003.MAT are similar, differing only in materials and water depth (130m and 120m,
respectively). Additionally, two mooring files (MOOR001TS.MAT and MOOR002TS.MAT) have been saved with time
dependent current vectors, so that movies or time dependent solutions can be sought and movies generated. Finally, I have
included two examples, one sub-surface and another a surface mooring, directly entered from Berteaux's (Cable Dynamics
and Mooring Systems) software analysis package so that solutions obtained by MD&D can be compared against CDMS's
SFMOOR.EXE (Surface Mooring) and SSMOOR.EXE (Sub-Surface Mooring).

Example One
MOOR001.MAT (shown on the right) is a simple, sub-surface, Aanderaa current
meter mooring. It consists of 16 total elements, including a 37 inch ORE (Ocean
Research Equipment Inc.) buoy, 80 m of 3/8 inch wire rope, a triple set of 16 inch
Viny floats, an Aanderaa RCM-7 current meter (at a height of 12.3 m off the
bottom), 5 m of 3/8 inch wire rope, an EG&G 8242 acoustic release, 5 m of 1 inch
stud-link chain, a double railway wheel anchor, and miscellaneous shackles
(fasteners) and a swivel. Due to the crowding of labels, the fasteners and joiners are
not listed when a mooring is plotted (as in the figure to the right), but are listed
when the mooring elements are displayed in the command window. The initial (no
current) height of the buoy (mooring) above the bottom is 95 m. This can be
displayed by requesting Display Mooring Elements from the Main Menu prior to
requesting a solution. The displayed information includes a list of the mooring
element number (from top to bottom), and mooring element names, their vertical
"length", their buoyancy [kg], and their height above the bottom. Not displayed are
the horizontal (X and Y) displacements or wire tensions and angles, since no formal
calculations have been performed yet.

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 32 of 39
When MOOR001.MAT is
loaded, a preset current
profile
(environmental
condition)
is
loaded,
specifying a water column
120 m deep, with surface
current of 2 ms-1. When
evaluated, this strong current
causes the mooring to lay
over considerably. Shown to
the left is the plot of the
mooring forced with a single
component current of 2 ms-1.
The
major
mooring
components
(i.e.
floats,
current
meters,
acoustic
releases,.. are plotted as
special symbols on the
mooring wire. Shown below
is the information displayed
in the command window
subsequent to the evaluation
and after requesting the
updated display.

As part of the "solution",
information with regard to the
tensions and recommended
anchor mass is displayed.
Total tension on the anchor,
as well as the vertical and
horizontal components of
tension are displayed. The
height of the buoy is now
88.99 m, with a horizontal displacement in the X direction (associated with a U [eastward] current) or 31.4 m. The 37 inch
ORE buoy provides a buoyant force equivalent to 300 kg, but due to the drag on the buoy, the tension in the wire just below
the buoy is 305.9 kg. Since the 3/8 inch wire has negative buoyancy (sinks), at the bottom of the 80 m length of wire, the
tension is reduced to 293.8 kg. The angle from vertical for the first section of wire changes from 11.5 degrees just below the
buoy to 23.4 degrees just above the triple Viny floats. The Viny floats are now at a height of 12.06 m, down from the nocurrent case of 13.9 m. The height of the Aanderaa current meter is 11.0 m and the acoustic release is at 5.31 m above the
bottom. The inclusion of mid-mooring floatation increases the tension for elements below the Viny floats. The 1 inch chain is
heavy (buoyancy of -13 kg/m) and significantly reduces the tension at the anchor (242.6 kg).
Below is the solution for moor001.mat as displayed in the Matlab® command window.

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 33 of 39

Return to Examples
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Example Two
MOOR002.MAT (shown on the right) is another simple mooring, now configured to
represent an S-shaped surface mooring. It consists of 19 components, with a single
Aanderaa current meter near the bottom, and three sets of floatation separated by 3/8
inch wire rope. The mooring height (without currents) is 136.63 m. The water depth
is set in the prescribed current profile to 130 m. Example 3 is a similar mooring, but
the upper section of 3/8 wire has been replaced with polypropylene rope, and the
water depth has been reduced to 120 m. The "S" shape is derived from the fact that
during weak current conditions, the upper "wire" will hang down, with the lower
portion of the mooring being supported by the second set of floats, and the upper
most floatation device will then only support the weight of the top section of wire.
When a solution is sought for moor002.mat, since the height of the initial mooring
exceeds the water depth, the command window indicates the program knows it may
be searching for a "surface" solution (see displayed solution below). The default
current profile in moor002.mat includes both U and V, with peak current speeds at
the surface of 0.5 and 0.45 m/s, respectively. In searching for a converged "surface"
solution, the algorithm must determine the exact amount of buoyancy required to
support the mooring under the tensions introduced by the submerged weight of the
mooring components and the drag on the submerged components. By definition, a
"surface" solution will not "use" all of the buoyancy of the top floatation device,
leaving a portion of the floatation above water. This reduces both the effective (used)
buoyancy of the top floatation device, and the drag of the float, proportional to the
portion in the water. Consequently, a "surface" solution may take many more iterations to converge. For the case of
moor002.mat, 28 iterations are needed before a converged surface solution is reached (a dot is displayed for each iteration).
Shown here is the plot of the solution for moor002.mat. The
normalized current profiles are plotted, normalized in such a

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 34 of 39

way as to give full scale to the maximum speed for each
component (U and V), with this maximum speed plotted at the top of the velocity profile. We can see the lifting of the
mooring by the upper two floatation devices and the displacement of the mooring in both the X and Y directions. Below is
the text display of the solution, showing the fact that it is a surface solution, using only 14% of the surface float to support the
top section of wire.
Two very important "features" of MD&D can be demonstrated with the mooring stored in MOOR002.MAT. First, if the
current profiles are modified such that the depth of the water [height of the first current estimate z(1)] is reduced to 95 m, and
a solution is then requested, we find that the second set of floats is now on the surface, and the upper most floatation and wire
will hang downstream of this second set of floats and provide no vertical tension, only horizontal drag. This type of solution
is extremely tricky to get to converge, and so the upper portions of the mooring (above the second set of floats), where there
are no instruments, is "removed" in order to find a solution. A message stating that several components of the mooring have
been removed is displayed in the command window, and the remaining portion of the mooring is then used to find a solution.
This limitation means that an "S-shaped" mooring where the second set of floatation device(s) can fully support the mooring
as a surface solution can NOT be evaluated (with out removing the "S" portion of the string). Another "feature" can be tested
by taking the original MOOR002.MAT mooring and increasing the upper most (surface) current speed. If one sets U(1) to 1.5
m/s at z(1)=130 (using Set/Load Environmental Conditions), then while the solution is sought, the model will find that 100%
of the upper most float is required to support the mooring, and the solution becomes a sub-surface solution. Note for this
modified example, the large double railway wheel anchor is only just sufficient. When such a mooring is forced by time
varying currents (i.e. MOOR002TS.mat), one can determine when a surface mooring will become a sub-surface mooring.
This is particularly important as the original anchor mass maybe sufficient for a surface solution, but inadequate for a subsurface solution.
Solution for MOOR002.MAT

Return to Examples
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 35 of 39

Example Three
The mooring example found in file MOOR003.MAT is virtually
identical to that of MOOR002.MAT, except that the top section of 3/8
inch steel wire has been replaced with 40 metres of 3/4 inch
Polypropylene, and the water depth (current profiles) has been
reduced to 120 m. Since Polypropylene is positively buoyant (floats),
the "S" characteristics of the mooring change somewhat. For weak
current conditions and water depths shallower than the full mooring
height, a portion of the Polypropylene rope will lie on the surface,
with the surface float streaming off down current of the mooring (see
solution plot to the left). The top float is only supporting itself and
providing slight horizontal drag (proportional to the fraction of the
float that is submerged). Since there is no wave action in this model,
the top float sits passively on the surface. In rough seas, one may
expect the float to "bob" and have an increased (albeit periodic) net
drag. If one modifies the current profile data loaded from
MOOR003.MAT, and increases the surface current speed, then the
mooring (MOOR003.MAT) will gradually stretch out and begin to use
the top float for buoyancy. Alternately, one can test a time dependent
solution by loading the time dependent currents found in file
VELTS.MAT, and follow the steps to Make a Movie. The time
dependent solution will have periods of slack water with a surface
float and slack Polypropylene, extended surface "S" solutions, and
submerged solutions, as the currents go through a simple four
quadrant "tidal" oscillation.

Return to Examples
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Example CDMS-1 SSMOOR
The next example (file cdmsum1.mat) was taken directly from the Cable
Dynamics and Mooring Systems™ (CDMS) Users Manual for the
program SSMoor.exe (sub-surface mooring), and was used for model
verification. The mooring, shown on the right, consists of a large (1.2m )
diameter spherical floatation device located 483 m above an anchor
(SSMoor.exe and SFMoor.exe do not include the anchor in their list of
mooring hardware). Three "vanilla" current meters, coded into the
database as "CDMS CM", are strung between wire and kevlar segments.
A set of 10 17 inch Benthos glass floats are strung at the bottom, along
with an acoustic release ("CDMS AR") and some 3/8 inch chain above
the anchor. Strings of ten paired 17 inch benthos glass floats are
commonly used by the mooring group at the Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institute. The example described in the CDMS Users Manual is for a
single component current profile (which is all that is allowed in
SSMoor.exe), with a water depth of 525 m and a surface current of 1.5

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 36 of 39

m/s. The solution is plotted on the left, showing the effective height of
432 m and a horizontal displacement of 75 m. The total tension at the anchor is 827 kg, with 816 kg of vertical lift and 131 kg
of horizontal drag. This agrees very well with the numbers generated by SSMoor.exe. Shown below is the Matlab®
command window data, displaying the current and density profiles used, and the solution, including the suggested anchor
requirements and the segment by segment tensions and positions. This is followed by the solution generated using
SSMoor.exe. The agreement is good (to get heights: water depth - component depth, e.g. 525 - 92.6=432.4), but there are
subtle differences. These differences are attributed to the formulae used to calculate drag, SSMoor using Ui*Ui while
MD&D uses |U|*Ui, where the subscript "i" refers the component of the current in the direction of the drag force, with
MD&D forces always being slightly higher.

MD&D Solution for CDMS-1 (cdmsum1.mat)

SSMoor Solution for CDMS-1

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 37 of 39

The above tables show how similar the solutions are. Compare for example the tension in the wire underneath the float. Due
to differences in how the hydrodynamic drag is calculated, the tension above the anchor is predicted to be slightly (2%)
higher by MD&D than by SSMoor. When the zero current solutions are sought, the positions and tensions are identical.
Fortunately, the difference in solutions with currents errs (if MD&D is in error, although I believe it is not) on the side of
requesting a larger anchor mass and slightly higher in-line tensions. Similarly, the component positions are in good
agreement. SSMoor.exe displays the depth of the devices, while I have chosen to display the height above the bottom. To get
height above the bottom, subtract the SSMoor.exe's component depth from the water depth (525m).

Return to Examples
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

Example CDMS-2 SFMOOR
The last example (file cdmsum2.mat) is the surface float mooring example presented
in the CDMS Users Manual for the Surface Mooring program SFMoor.exe. This
mooring is similar to that of CDMS-1, but includes a long segment of nylon rope,
which has good stretch and strength characteristics. The total length of the mooring
components is 1950m, and the mooring is deployed in 2000 m of water. A 3D current
structure is imposed, with all U, V and W specified. The surface float is a 2m
diameter sphere, and current meters are located at the surface and at a depth of 950 m.
The Nylon rope stretches under the tension, so that 52% of the float is used to support
the surface mooring. For demonstration purposes, the mooring configured in the
MD&D file cdmsum2.mat, has only a single railway wheel as the anchor, clearly
insufficient for a large, current forced surface mooring. When the solution is sought,
the tension on the anchor is estimated, and a warning is posted to indicate that the
selected anchor is most likely insufficient for this mooring. A six railway wheel
anchor would work.

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 38 of 39

A comparison of the wire tensions and component positions as predicted by MD&D and SFMoor.exe are shown below in the
two following tables.

MD&D Solution for CDMS-2 (cdmsum2.mat)

SFMoor Solution for CDMS-2

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

Mooring Design and Dynamics: Users Guide

Page 39 of 39

These tables show how similar the solutions are, in both wire tension and angle, and component position. Slight differences
are attributable to how MD&D correctly calculates hydrodynamic drag. When the zero current solutions are sought, the
positions and tensions are identical.

Return to Examples
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

6 Disclaimer
The user of this package takes full responsibility for designing and building a safe and reliable moorings and towed bodies,
that facilitate safe and easy deployment, and safe and easy recovery. This set of programs is only an aide in evaluating
different mooring designs and configurations forced by varying 3D currents. It does not attempt to estimate the forces and
tensions during deployment or recovery, which may be significantly higher than the "in-water/static" tensions, as components
hanging out of water will have significantly more weight and "falling" moorings will experience significant velocities and
drag. The author does not provide sources for instruments or mooring components (i.e. wire), nor endorse the manufacturers
specified strength and tension limits. If in doubt, add a safety factor of 1.5, or larger.
This package can be used to predict wire tensions, anchor weights, and sensor heights, potentially for backing out the actual
depth/height of a mooring sensor in a current and correcting for mooring motion. My intent is to maintain this package as a
free research tool. However, the potential uses are varied, including commercial applications. If you use this package and find
it helpful, appropriate reference to this article or the Mooring Design and Dynamics web page is appreciated.
Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC

7 References
1. Berteaux, H. O., 1976: Buoy Engineering, John Wiley & Sons, New York.
2. Myers, J.J., C.H.Holm, and R.F.McAllister, 1969:Handbook of Ocean and Underwater Engineering, McGraw-Hill,
New York.
3. Schlichting, H., 1968. Boundary Layer Theory. McGraw-Hill, New York.
4. Hoerner, S.F., 1965: Fluid-Dynamic Drag, Published by Author.

Return to The Main Menu
Return to Users Guide TOC
This paper was first published in Marine Models Online, Vol(1), pp 103-157.
hits since March 1999.
Best viewed with Microsoft Internet Explorer.
Last modified May 12, 2000.
Questions and comments are welcome, Richard Dewey

file://C:\Inetpub\wwwroot\rkd\mooring\mdd\mdd.html

13/09/2006

